# Spree Import Products

## About

A Spree extension that provides the ability to import products from an xlsx file to any ecommerce application irrespective of the business they cater. Including the association between the models.

## Installation

1. Add this extension to your Gemfile with this line:

    ```ruby
    gem 'spree_import_products'
    ```

2. Install the gem using Bundler

    ```ruby
    bundle install
    ```

3. Copy & run migrations

    ```ruby
    bundle exec rails g spree_import_products:install
    ```

4. Restart your server

  If your server was running, restart it so that it can find the assets properly.
  
## Demo



https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/80153749/190127958-4ed6b4be-f5aa-49e4-8230-51374fd274cc.mp4

[Download Sample File](https://github.com/spree-edge/spree_import_products/files/9565883/sample.xlsx)


## Rule to device xlsx file

Spree's syntactic sugar, allows us to add associated model for products like Taxon trees, Option Types Variants, Product Properties and bulk upload of images.

### OptionType & Variants

To define variants in spree, first we need to have option types linked to a product.

**Ex:-** Color, Size, Material

To create a variant we have option values againt option types.

**Ex:-** For type Color we have Red,Blue,Green as option values.

#### Simple Variants creation:

This example demonstrates how to create Variants from a single OptionType from within a single column, using an embedded syntax. 

**'Option Types'**

    size:small|size:medium|Size:Large

So in the above example we will end up with 3 variants(**'|'**) which will be as follows:

    Variant 1: size:small
    Variant 2: size:medium
    Variant 3: size:large


#### Complex Variant Creation: 

To create a Variant with both size and colour use the delimiter **';'** to indicate a composite variant required.

 **'|'** still delimits Variants for a specific OptionType

EX:- 

**'Option Types'**

    size:small;colour:blue|size:medium;colour:green|size:large;colour:red

If no such size or colour OptionType exists then a new one is created with the supplied name.

So in the above example we will end up with 3 variants(**'|'**) which are as follows:

    Variant 1: size:small, colour:blue
    Variant 2: size:medium, colour:green
    Variant 3: size:large, colour:red
 

## Properties

Properties are snippets of text, which tell us more about the product.

As for all associations can contain multiple name/value sets in default form :

    Property:display_value|Property:display_value

For EX:- 

    brand:Bluebash|technology:ROR

So in the above example we will end up with two properties which are as follows:

    Property 1: brand:Bluebash
    Property 2: technology:ROR

Multiple instances of a has_many association can be created via separating each instance with **|** in a single column.

## Taxons
To understand the taxon creation from a single column, we first need to understand the delimeters we would be using which are as follows

    '>'  To create nested taxons
    '|'  To create multiple taxons

For example, to create 3 Taxons, where **"Company"** is parent to **"Software Development"**, and **"Software Development"** parent to **Languages**

    Company>Software development>Languages

And if we want to create two taxon trees we will seperate the second taxon tree with **"Pipe Symbol"('|')**, and your taxon column will look like:

    Company>software development>Languages | Company>Mobile App development>Framework


## Important Points to note

**CountOnHand** and **Image** column should have same number of values as we have in variant's column, seperated by pipe symbol('|) 

**Ex:**
If we have 3 variants, then the CountOnHand and Image column will have values like:

    Variant(column) - size:small;colour:blue|size:medium;colour:green|size:large;colour:red
    CountOnHand(column) - 1|4|6
    Image(column) - link1|link2|link3
    
Whenever we import_product, the **taxcategory** and **shippingcategory** name will be appended with the store name.
For ex: 
    TaxCategory(column) - 'US-VAT'
    ShippingCategory(column) - 'Delicate'

Lets say your store name is Store1, then your assigned taxcategory and ShippingCategpry after product import will be **US-VAT_Store1** and **Delicate_Store1** respectively.


## Testing

First bundle your dependencies, then run `rake`. `rake` will default to building the dummy app if it does not exist, then it will run specs. The dummy app can be regenerated by using `rake test_app`.

```shell
bundle update
bundle exec rake
```

When testing your applications integration with this extension you may use it's factories.
Simply add this require statement to your spec_helper:

```ruby
require 'spree_import_products/factories'
```

## Releasing

```shell
bundle exec gem bump -p -t
bundle exec gem release
```

For more options please see [gem-release README](https://github.com/svenfuchs/gem-release)

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute, please take a look at the
[instructions](CONTRIBUTING.md) for installing dependencies and crafting a good
pull request.

Copyright (c) 2022 [name of extension creator], released under the New BSD License
